---
title: "Chris's Adventures in finding a Web Host"
date: "2007-01-19T14:43:13.000"
categories: 
  - "random"
---

Early this week I received notification that I was bumping my head on the disk space ceiling of my current web host. It wasn't a very high ceiling, but it's a friend that leases a server and provides small accounts to friends for very reasonable prices, so I wasn't in a mood to complain. However, anticipating that my disk space needs would only increase, I decided to look around and see what other web hosting services were available.

My only real experience with a web hosting services to date has been with [Lunarpages](http://www.lunarpages.com). I've administered the [recminusa.org](http://recminusa.org) and [brewedawakeningscr.com](http://brewedawakeningscr.com) sites for a couple of years now, and Lunarpages has worked just fine. Their price is reasonable ($7/month), but to get that price they require a year's payment up front... which is just more than I can afford right now. So, I looked around a bit more.

**My Needs**

My needs in a web host are fairly simple. Mostly I use my site for hosting blogs, so I need good MySql support. I need to be able to FTP my file changes up to the site. I want to be able to run a handful of email accounts. SSH access would be a nice bonus (some things are just much easier done via the command line!) but isn't essential. Thus was my criteria in place for picking a new web host.

**Attempt #1**

My first exploration was with [1and1](http://www.1and1.com). They offer fantastically inexpensive rates for large amounts of disk space and bandwidth. They also advertised acceptable amounts of databases and email addresses. The best deal was their pricing: $2.50/month for the first six months, then up to $5/month after that, for 100 GB of storage and 1000 GB of bandwidth. They only required six months' payment up front, so I went ahead and signed up. I was not impressed.

My first big complaint with 1and1 is their naming scheme for everything. Rather than get FTP accounts with reasonable names, they auto-assign you some terrible autogenerated alphanumeric codes. Ditto for the SQL databases. You're not allowed to name your own; they create some awful names for you. And to top it off, they have no file manager at all. You have to just do everything via FTP. Unacceptable. 1and1 advertises a "90-day money back guarantee". I'm going to take them up on it. Yesterday I tried calling to cancel, and after 15 minutes of hideous hold music I couldn't take any more. I'll try again today and see if I can get through.

**Attempt #2**

My second stop on the web-hosting quest was with [Dot 5 Hosting](http://dot5hosting.com). Their prices were similar to 1and1's, but in comparison to 1and1's horrible interface, they advertise a nicer control panel called "vDeck". They offered packages that only required 3 months' pay-ahead, and a similar 90-day guarantee, so I went ahead and signed up.

Strike 1 against Dot 5 hosting is that their control panel is on a non-standard IP port, which means it gets blocked by the firewall at my workplace. Given that I do most of my administration over the lunch hour, that was a big black mark. However, they sent me a nice email with my FTP login information (in plain english!), so I patiently waited until I got home, then started to try to administer things. Yes, they had a file manager. But one slight problem: **they don't give you an ability to unzip compressed files!** This totally baffles me. Why on earth would you require your users to unzip and then FTP individual files up? What a waste. That was the show-stopper right there for me. Time to cancel again. Dot 5 offers live chat help, which actually worked pretty well. They told me I needed to send an email to cancel my service, so I sent the email, and I'm awaiting the cancellation confirmation. We'll see how it goes.

**In the end...**

Finally I came to the conclusion that I need to just stay with my current provider for now. I'd been keeping [Geof](http://gfmorris.net) apprised of my search, and we worked something out to up my available disk space a bit. (Thanks, Geof!) So far, so good. Oh, and Geof allows me SSH access, which is something neither Dot 5 nor 1and1 would provide. I guess sometimes you just don't know how good you've got it.
