---
title: "Should this really be our fight?"
date: 2007-09-28T12:48:04.000
tags: ['church','theology','rants']
---

**"Clergy fight same sex marriage"**. This headline stared out at me from this morning's copy of the [Cedar Rapids _Gazette_](http://gazetteonline.com). The sub-heading (which was used as the title of [the online version of the story](http://gazetteonline.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20070927/NEWS/70927010/1006/NEWS)) gives more detail: "Iowa church leaders planning rally 'defending marriage'".

> A coalition of church leaders today announced plans for an Oct. 28 prayer rally and other actions to defend traditional marriage in the face of a district judge's ruling striking down a same-sex marriage ban -- a development they warned could convert Iowa into the nation's "Rainbow Vegas."  
> <br/>
> "This is a call to arms," said Dan Berry of Cornerstone Family Church. "The sleeping giant is being awakened."

Later in the story, the Rev. Keith Ratliff of Maple Street Missionary Baptist Church in Des Moines said the "...campaign is not geared toward hate or fear of homosexuals, but rather seeks to preserve the longstanding, family-based and Bible-backed tradition of marriage as being a union between a man and a woman."

The final, colorful quote in the story comes from Chuck Hurley of the Iowa Family Policy Center, who warns that if the same-sex marriage ban is permanently reversed, Iowa will be come "the Rainbow Vegas".

We have gotten all too familiar with hearing pastors and Christian leaders like these over the past two decades. On a national level, radio hosts like [Dr. Dobson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Dobson), televangelists/presidential candidates such as [Pat Robertson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pat_robertson), and leaders of movements like the Moral Majority (the late [Rev. Jerry Falwell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jerry_falwell), an OK guy in my book), and later on the Christian Coalition ([Ralph Reed](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralph_E._Reed%2C_Jr.), who turned out to be a bit more crooked), urged their listeners or viewers to call their congressman, write their legislator, to stop this piece of legislation, encourage that one, or to decry a recent judicial ruling.

There is a place in the life of a Christian for speaking the truth to our community. In many cases that should and will include involvement in the political arena. At our church this past week we had a petition on the table in the foyer urging Iowa lawmakers to pass a state constitutional amendment in "defense of marriage", and to urge them to support an amendment to the federal constitution as well. One of our elders, during announcement time in the service, asked folks to consider signing it. Many did. (I didn't. I'm not so sure that we should change the constitution for something like this.) But I fear for the sake of the Gospel and our churches when what our pastors are known for are leading the "sleeping giant" into the political arena when those rascally judges finally go too far. (Why is the church "sleeping", anyway? Maybe that's problem _numero uno_.)

Particularly disgusting to me was the quote from Mr. Hurley of the Iowa Family Policy Center, pulling out the scare tactics to warn good little church people that their beloved, safe hometowns will become a "Rainbow Vegas". "Ooh! Run away!!! Gay people!!! Be afraid!" I don't know whether Hurley is a pastor or not, but the [IFPC website](http://www.iowaprofamily.org/) is pretty plainly espousing Christianity, including on their site a [Prayer Request page](http://www.iowaprofamily.org/IFPC-Prayer.htm) with a quote from John Bunyan. Mr. Hurley, I see plenty of prayer requests on that page for new donors, success in the courts and the legislature, and politically active people. But where's the prayer request that these people who you fear so strongly would hear the good news of Jesus Christ and be freed from their bondage to sin? If we're going to rouse the "sleeping giant" of the church, why are you only rousing them to join the political fight against your adversaries rather than rousing them to minister to and serve those same people?

Our primary command as believers in Jesus Christ is the [Great Commission](http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=mark%2016:15;&version=47;): to go into all the world and proclaim the gospel. We are not to huddle in a spirit of fear, desperately attempting to protect our little enclave against the evil world around us. Christ has already won the victory. It's over. Instead, we need to go **to** "those people", and love them. Serve them. Find out who they are. What makes them tick. Show them the love of Christ in action, so that when we find avenues to share it verbally, they will already understand. We are not to fear "them", but rather to fear **for** them, knowing that we, too, were once hopelessly ensnared in sin. Our new righteousness is not our own; we dare not boast in it. Only in Christ.

Change comes from the inside. Pass all the laws you want, legislate your own specific understanding of perfect morality, but if you don't change the hearts, laws aren't gonna do any good. (See: [The Prohibition](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prohibition_in_the_United_States).) However, if lives are changed by the power of God, pass or repeal all the laws you want; people living for Christ will make whatever country they live in the kind of country that you probably want it to be. I fear that the siren song of political power has been too attractive to the Church. Let's stop being distracted by it, and focus instead on loving our neighbor.
