---
title: "Links for 2010-08-02"
date: "2010-08-03T03:00:00.000"
categories: 
  - "chriss-omnibus-links-reviews-2"
tags: 
  - "links"
---

Things I've linked recently:

- [Fulcrum: The Scriptures, The Hope and The Mutual Welcome - N. T. Wright's farewell sermon](http://www.fulcrum-anglican.org.uk/page.cfm?ID=548)
    
    "...I trust that in these seven years I have laid to rest any suggestion that to be interested in social justice you have to deny the resurrection of Jesus, or that to be interested in eternal salvation you have to treat the world as irrelevant. When I spoke in the Lords a few months ago about the future use of our massive and untapped coal stocks here in the north-east, I had Radio Newcastle on the phone. What, they wanted to know, was a bishop doing talking about coal? Fortunately Psalm 24 came straight to mind. Well, I replied, in the good book it says that the earth is the Lord’s and the fullness thereof, and you can’t get much more fullness of the earth than all that coal down there. That’s why the Miners’ Gala which we celebrated last weekend remains so important to us here in Durham. God and creation belong together. In Isaiah’s vision, in Paul’s exposition, they belong exactly together. The root of Jesse, Paul declares – in a letter to Rome of all places! – ‘rises to rule the nations’. The resurrection serves notice on Caesar that his time is up, that he is reduced to a secondary role – still important, but strictly limited; and every act of justice and mercy puts that victory into practice. "
