---
title: 'Migrating to Eleventy'
date: 2023-12-01
tags: ['blogging', 'tech']
---
If you're reading this post, you're seeing the updated ChrisHubbs.com as generated by [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/), a static site generator. After being on Wordpress for nearly twenty years, this was a significant change!

## Why leave Wordpress?
I mean, twenty years of history can't be all bad, right? Wordpress was originally released in May 2003, and by October 2004 I had a blog up and running it. (Well, Geof was administering it for the first couple years. RIP.) And Wordpress has had amazing growth over two decades and runs a lot of the internet's websites. 

But Wordpress was starting to get frustrating. They seem to be working harder and harder to monetize it, even for users of the free product. Want any social features, sharing, analytics, etc? Use the Jetpack extension. Which is free for some functionality, paid for other. OK, I guess. But then they start giving you dashboard "site health indicators" which will tell you that you have problems and the only solution is to subscribe to the paid service. No thanks. 

## Why Eleventy?
There are a bunch of static site generators out there. I considered both Eleventy and [Astro](https://astro.build) and did some demo work with each. In the end, I found a nice site theme/template I liked build in Eleventy, and it managed to build my full site without any hiccups. It's a big site, so that's a win. My path to publishing is a little more intensive than it was under Wordpress, but when I only publish weekly at best, I can survive that. It's not _that_ hard.

## So, almost twenty years?
Yeah, it was a lot of posts. I cleaned up some of them that were just dead links, but I kept most of them around. Once all the cleanup was done I have 1263 posts migrated over. This one now makes 1264. It feels both monumental and trivial at the same time.

I'll do a separate post with some more personal thoughts that were prompted by going through almost 20 years of my written thoughts. But for now, hey, at least it's functional!